Add time platform to KNX (#27979)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/knx.markdown

  required: false
  type: string
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. The following values are valid
```

  type: boolean
  default: false
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. The following values are valid
```

  required: false
  type: string
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. The following values are valid
```

  default: None
{% endconfiguration %}

## Time

> The KNX time platform allows to send time values to the KNX bus and update its state from received telegrams. It can optionally respond to read requests from the KNX bus with its current state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The KNX time platform allows to send time values to the KNX bus and update its state from received telegrams. It can optionally respond to read requests from the KNX bus with its current state.
```
I don't quite understand this last sentence: " It can optionally respond to read requests from the KNX bus with its current state."
Could we just say "It can optionally respond to read requests from the KNX bus"?

<div class='note'>

Time entities without a `state_address` will restore their last known state after Home Assistant was restarted.

> Times having a `state_address` configured request their current state from the KNX bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Times having a `state_address` configured, request their current state from the KNX bus.
```

</div>

<div class='note'>

> The `day` filed of the time telegram will always be set to 0 (`no day`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `day` field of the time telegram will always be set to 0 (`no day`).
```

</div>

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
knx:
  time:
    - name: "Time"
      address: "0/0/2"
      state_address: "0/0/2"
```

> 

Reviewer: state_address: "0/0/2"

are these zeroes the `day`fields of the time telegram, as mentioned above? Or is this unrelated? How do I know the address?

Author: "x/y/z" is the most common notation for KNX group addresses. KNX users know this very well 😉
The day field is always present in a DPT 10.001 telegram (its the first 3 bit of the 3 byte payload) and can't be configured.

{% configuration %}
name:
  description: A name for this device used within Home Assistant.
  required: false
  type: string
address:

>   description: Group address new values will be sent to. *DPT 10.001*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Group address. New values will be sent to *DPT 10.001*.
```

>   description: Group address new values will be sent to. *DPT 10.001*

Author: Its the configured Group address we send to.
`DPT` is a common KNX term for "Data point type" and describes an attribute/requirement of that Group Address.

Reviewer: Ah, I completely misunderstood that sentence then. Please disregard my change suggestions.

would it make sense to add the explanation you provided just now? Maybe somewhere else in the KNX docs? I found 102 hits for dpt in the docs, but it does not seem to be spelled out or explained anywhere. Who will be using this integration? Are these people that know these KNX specifics? Probably outside the scope of this PR, but maybe something to keep in mind.

Author: I really think it is well known in the KNX universe.

  required: true
  type: [string, list]
state_address:
  description: Group address for retrieving the state from the KNX bus. *DPT 10.001*
  required: false
  type: [string, list]
respond_to_read:
  description: Respond to GroupValueRead telegrams received to the configured `address`.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. If `false` no GroupValueRead telegrams will be sent to the bus. `sync_state` can be set to `init` to just initialize state on startup, `expire <minutes>` to read the state from the KNX bus when no telegram was received for \<minutes\> or `every <minutes>` to update it regularly every \<minutes\>. Maximum value for \<minutes\> is 1440. If just a number is configured "expire"-behaviour is used. Defaults to `true` which is interpreted as "expire 60".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. If `false`, no GroupValueRead telegrams will be sent to the bus. `sync_state` can have the following values: 
  - `init` to just initialize the state on startup
  -  `expire <minutes>` to read the state from the KNX bus when no telegram was received for \<minutes\> 
  -  `every <minutes>` to update it regularly every \<minutes\>.
 The maximum value for \<minutes\> is 1440. If just a number is configured, the "expire"-behavior is used. Defaults to `true` which is interpreted as "expire 60".
```

Author: Thank you very much for this suggestion! It reads way better.
Unfortunately it doesn't render as expected in `rake preview` 😬. I tried some variations and came up with a solution I think is ok - but this again triggers `markdownlint`.. I couldn't find a way to both render it properly and satisfy markdownlint. 
Do you have any idea how this would be possible?

Here is my current attempt (as in [ae549a6](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/pull/27979/commits/ae549a666091f8288e67ff80742d9b72b7ea0637)):
```md
sync_state:
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

    - `true` equivalent to "expire 60" (default)

    - `false` no GroupValueRead telegrams will be sent to the bus

    - `every <minutes>` to update it regularly every \<minutes\>

    - `expire <minutes>` to read the state from the KNX bus when no telegram was received for \<minutes\>

    - `<minutes>` equivalent to "expire \<minutes\>"

    - `init` to just initialize the state on startup

  required: false
  type: [boolean, string, integer]
  default: true
```

<img width="765" alt="Bildschirmfoto 2023-06-28 um 10 15 03" src="https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/12422879/17d62bf8-ba64-4d7f-b4f9-5b323ac375a3">

Author: Oh, nevermind... it seems that linter warning was just my local editor and it is not checked in CI 🙃

  default: None
{% endconfiguration %}

## Time

The KNX time platform allows to send time values to the KNX bus and update its state from received telegrams. It can optionally respond to read requests from the KNX bus.

<div class='note'>

Time entities without a `state_address` will restore their last known state after Home Assistant was restarted.

> Times having a `state_address` configured, request their current state from the KNX bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Times that have a `state_address` configured request their current state from the KNX bus.
```

</div>

<div class='note'>

The `day` field of the time telegram will always be set to 0 (`no day`).

</div>

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
knx:
  time:
    - name: "Time"
      address: "0/0/2"
      state_address: "0/0/2"
```

{% configuration %}
name:
  description: A name for this device used within Home Assistant.
  required: false
  type: string
address:

>   description: Group address new values will be sent to. *DPT 10.001*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The group address to which new values will be sent. *DPT 10.001*
```

  required: true
  type: [string, list]
state_address:
  description: Group address for retrieving the state from the KNX bus. *DPT 10.001*
  required: false
  type: [string, list]
respond_to_read:
  description: Respond to GroupValueRead telegrams received to the configured `address`.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. The following values are valid
```

  required: false
  type: [string, list]
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. If `false` no GroupValueRead telegrams will be sent to the bus. `sync_state` can be set to `init` to just initialize state on startup, `expire <minutes>` to read the state from the KNX bus when no telegram was received for \<minutes\> or `every <minutes>` to update it regularly every \<minutes\>. Maximum value for \<minutes\> is 1440. If just a number is configured "expire"-behaviour is used. Defaults to `true` which is interpreted as "expire 60".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. If `false`, no GroupValueRead telegrams will be sent to the bus. `sync_state` can have the following values:
 - `init` to just initialize state on startup
 - `expire <minutes>` to read the state from the KNX bus when no telegram was received for \<minutes\>
 - `every <minutes>` to update it regularly every \<minutes\>. 
Maximum value for \<minutes\> is 1440. If just a number is configured, "expire"-behaviour is used. Defaults to `true` which is interpreted as "expire 60".
```

  required: false
  type: [string, list]
sync_state:

>   description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. Following values are valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Actively read the value from the bus. The maximum time interval (`<minutes>`) is 1440. The following values are valid
```
